# Project-447
 59.4 MW Bundled Wind Power Project in Rajasthan &amp; Madhya Pradesh by Orchid Renewable Powertech Private Limited 
 _____________
First CoU Issuance Period: 11 Years -01/01/2013 to 31/12/2023
_________________

The Project activity titled, "59.4 MW Bundled Wind Power Project in Rajasthan & Madhya Pradesh by Orchid
Renewable Powertech Private Limited" is a bundled wind-power Project located in Rajasthan and Madhya
Pradesh. This project comprises of 56 wind turbines spread across 9 villages in two states: Rajasthan (seven
villages in Jaisalmer and Jodhpur districts) and Madhya Pradesh (two villages in Dewas district).
It has been operational since October 29, 2010, which is the earliest commissioning date, and the last
commissioning date of the project is March 14, 2011, owned by Orchid Renewable Powertech Private limited
(hereinafter referred to as the Project Proponent or PP).

Purpose of the project activity:
The core objective of this bundled project is to leverage wind energy, a sustainable and naturally renewal
resource, for electrical power generation. By replacing electricity production from existing and planned fossil
fuel-based power plants within the grid, this initiative demonstrably contributes to the reduction of
anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions released into the atmosphere. In the absence of this project, the
requisite electricity would be generated by traditional power plants, which rely on the combustion of fossil
fuels and consequently contribute to air pollution. Conversely, the wind turbines employed in this project
generate electricity with no emissions whatsoever. Commissioning dates of the Wind Turbine Generator
installed are shown in the below table:

Sr. No. / Make/ No. & Capacity / Commissioning Date
________________
1/ Suzlon /2 X 1.2 MW/ 14-03-2011
_____________
2/ Suzlon/ 5 X 1.5 MW/ 31-03-2008
______________
3/ Suzlon/ 3 X 2.1 MW /11-09-2010
________________
4/ Suzlon/ 2 X 2.1 MW /24-09-2010
_______________
5/ Suzlon /2 X 1.5 MW /25-03-2009
___________
6/ Enercon /1 X 0.8 MW /29-08-2008
___________
7/ Enercon /1 X 0.8 MW /08-08-2008
______________
8/ Enercon/ 2 X 0.8MW/ 21-07-2008
____________
9/ Enercon/ 9 X 0.8 MW/ 25-03-2009
____________
10/ Enercon/ 3 X 0.8 MW/ 24-06-2008
____________
11 /Enercon/ 6 X 0.8 MW /10-06-2009
____________
12 /Enercon/ 5 X 0.8 MW /29-06-2009
_____________
13/ Enercon/ 7 X 0.8 MW/ 20-03-2008
_____________________

This bundled project will generate approximately 98,865 MWh electricity per annum. The net generated
electricity from the project activity is for selling it to RDPPC (Rajasthan Discoms Power Procurement Centre)
for Rajasthan & M.P.P.K.V.V Co Ltd (MP Paschim Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Co. Ltd.) for Madhya Pradesh by
the project proponent. The power produced by the Project Activity is evacuated at Amarsagar 220KV/132KV,
Govt Akal GSS 440 KV/220KV, Tinwari GSS 220 KV/132KV, located at Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. For Madhya
Pradesh the power produced by the project activity is evacuated at Dewas GSS 132KV/33KV, Ashtha,Vicholi
& Indore 220KV/33KV located at Dewas. A Power Purchase Agreement has been signed between PP and
RDPPC & M.P.P.K.V.V Co Ltd. The project activity has been helping in greenhouse gas (GHG) emission
reduction by using renewable resources (wind energy) for generating power which otherwise would have been
generated using grid mix power plants, which is dominated by fossil fuel based thermal power plants. Through
the injection of renewable power to the grid, the project activity would be displacing equivalent quantum of
fossil fuel based electricity resulting in emission reduction of 88,978 tCO2 and whereas actual emission
reduction achieved during the first CoU period shall be submitted as a part of first monitoring and verification. 

